okay so I've made a short on this and
I've made videos about these Monster
tablets in the past and every single
time people get really into them and I'm
really into them but the question that
always keeps coming up every time is
are these actually iPad Killers like is
an iPad killer a real thing
so let's talk about it
this is the newest highest end Android
Tablet from Samsung the Galaxy Tab S9
Ultra and it's even more ridiculous than
the previous year's already crazy Ultra
and I love it so I've already made a
video on the tab S7 plus and then last
year the tab S8 Ultra if you haven't
already seen that I'll link it below
that was last year's version and so now
just like the rest of Samsung's recent
announcements this new one mostly looks
the same as last year's version but all
the changes they've made are in the same
direction just making it even more
capable so you've got this gigantic 14.6
inch tablet that I mean it feels like
I'm holding a small TV in my hands it
somehow also razor thin with a huge
battery inside and it actually doesn't
snap in half despite looking like it
probably should be susceptible to that
but hey watch The X video for yourself
if you don't believe me it survives
better than a lot of other devices have
this year though a new Snapdragon 8 Gen
2 for Galaxy inside plus a new Vapor
chamber cooling system under the hood so
there's going to be an even higher
ceiling for performance for everything
it's already good at we've seen this
thing do multitasking well for years and
be quick to scroll around and open and
close apps with normal usage and now
it'll do better at gaming and video
editing and potentially also last a bit
longer on that same 11 200 milliamp hour
battery that's bigger than any battery
that's ever been in an iPad this year
the quad speaker setup is also now made
up of 20 larger speakers which is a
pretty big jump and I'm not ready to
call these the best sounding speakers in
any tablet quite yet that's still that
goes to the iPad Pro still but these
sure do get really loud with very little
Distortion and you can flip on Dolby
Atmos audio if you want some pretty
impressive surround sound effects for
music or videos or games and then this
entire tablet is now ip68 water and dust
resistant for the first time which means
it's safe to not just splash it with
water but literally completely submerge
the whole thing underwater and it'll be
totally fine which is crazy I don't know
any situation where you would end up
with a tablet underwater maybe you're
recklessly watching Netflix next to a
pool or something and then you drop it
in I don't know that but if you did
it will still be fine but then on top of
that this S Pen also comes in the Box
again and this thing also now has an
ip68 rating of its own and it also now
supports bi-directional charging but not
the bi-directional charging you're
probably thinking of when you can accept
charge from the tablet but also charge
other things no I just mean whatever
Direction the pen faces when you
magnetize it to the back of the tablet
it will work and charge perfectly fine
which is better than last year what I'm
surprised doesn't come in the box is any
charging brick I mean for a tablet that
does everything this thing is actually
capable of 45 watt charging which is
really solid but the only way to get
that is to buy a charger something like
this anchor Prime desktop charger which
I would totally get over any Samsung
first party charger because it's gallium
nitride it's smaller and then it also
has multi-port charging up to 240 Watts
Max output so you could literally charge
a laptop full speed and the tablet full
speed at the same time but then of
course they also make a really
convenient battery Bank option so this
this is the anchor Prime 250 watt
battery bank with two USBC ports and one
USB a port it has a built-in inductive
wireless charging pad so that can charge
the battery Bank up to 100 watts and
then there's an app connected to it that
lets you configure the display and
optimize charging or even play a sound
to find it it's way more advanced than
any charger that's ever come in any
Samsung bucks so shout out to anchor for
sponsoring this video and I'll put a
link in the description for you to check
this one out right below that like
button but the point is I mean you've
seen all the specs now they're all huge
numbers it's a 14 and a half inch screen
in my hands it's 120 hertz it's an 11
200 milliamp hour battery it's quad
speakers it's the minimum 12 gigs of RAM
it's a terabyte of internal storage with
up to another terabyte of micro SD card
storage all these numbers are great but
it's actually using this tablet and
actually holding it it's it's hard to
describe it to you but it's even more
hilariously fun so I'm personally
partial to like media idea consumption
on devices like this like I would just
want to watch YouTube videos on a
gigantic screen take them with me
download them offline watch them on
flights with my free time like it's
already amazing for that and honestly I
think that's what most people do on
tablets a lot of the time but of course
for all the additional stuff that tablet
power users are going to be doing there
is just so much more that this thing is
capable of basically it's at the
Forefront of tablets there's all of
Samsung's multi-window multitasking
features and pop-up windows on that
16x10 aspect ratio display all of the
stylus features which if you want to use
a stylus on a tablet it feels like
Samsung and Apple are really the only
ones taking it seriously but you know
I'm using it to sign documents every
once in a while but there are some
people whose entire workflows go through
this thing and then you can't forget
about decks there's a whole clever
keyboard folio case that I didn't even
have here for this one but I had it for
the S8 Ultra and that adds a whole
nother Dimension and Dex mode has been
super used useful while giving you that
desktop experience with independent
windows and you can plug it into an even
larger display if you want to it's more
powerful than anything Apple has even
tried to do on the iPad and all of that
isn't even mentioning that this is
probably the biggest camera viewfinder
anyone has ever used Plus on the front
that little Notch up there I've
mentioned this before but there's two
selfie cameras a front-facing normal
camera and an ultra wide that can do
auto framing in videos or in video calls
similar to what Apple calls Center Stage
except these cameras are actually in the
right place on the long side of the
tablet so all that being said can this
be an iPad killer
that's the question we keep asking and
it's a good it's a real question like
this is clearly competing against the
iPad Pro the biggest baddest iPad Pro
but it's going to have a lot of things a
lot of features a lot of numbers to
one-up the iPad Pro right it's got a
bigger screen it's got bigger speakers
it's got external expandable storage
it's got the fingerprint reader that the
iPad Pro doesn't have and all of that
costs a hundred dollars more than the
equivalent iPad Pro
this reminds me of the conversation
we've had about Sony phones like in the
world of Android phones Sony is out here
making incredibly well-equipped super
high-end phones with a ton of Enthusiast
features and expandable memory and
manual controls that the competition
like just straight up doesn't offer and
that's only really at the expense of a
little bit of automatic mode usability
and price like they just they're
expensive they cost more and while it's
really easy to point out all the obvious
benefits and advantages to all these
extra features and these cool things
that it does it turns out
that the number of people who will
actually take advantage of these
features is Tiny
and I mean they're everywhere on YouTube
but when it comes to actually voting
with their wallets most people end up
just going with the sort of more
standard one and I feel like there is a
similar phenomenon Happening Here
for whatever reason videos about these
tablets do numbers they're they're going
crazy like people love to see these on
video and I like talking about them but
then when it comes to actually buying
them
people uh the the ecosystem effect is
way stronger than any uh YouTube
comments would suggest people love
flocking to the iPad for iMessage and
FaceTime and all these other things but
to keep it even more simple I like I
have this analogy that I really like
even better
people like bigger screens as long as it
doesn't sacrifice too much in the other
areas of the device
so take the MacBook Air for example that
13-inch MacBook Air was one of the best
selling laptops for years it was Apple's
number one best-selling laptop for a
long time and people wanted a bigger
screen but the only way that they could
get a bigger screen and still buy an
Apple product was to move all the way up
to the 16-inch MacBook Pro which was
just dramatically more expensive I mean
it was Overkill most people did not need
that much computer and so people would
actually start to drift away and go buy
a different slightly bigger screened
laptop from some other company so much
so that Apple finally this year decided
to introduce a larger 15-inch MacBook
Air and it turned out that's exactly
what people wanted they just want the
bigger screen on the other end of this
apple tried introducing a mini iPhone
for two whole years which you would
think is a brilliant idea if you only
read YouTube comments but again it turns
out most people
want the bigger screen and so that ended
up not selling enough it got
discontinued and today we have a plus
phone instead so this is a bigger screen
tablet than the iPad Pro which is why
it's so amazing and impressive to hold
and look at
but it's also a very different tablet
from the iPad Pro it's 100 bucks more
but it's an Android tablet it has a
whole different feature set and for a
lot of people that's too much sacrifice
and a lot of people will continue to
just get iPads but for those who are not
looped into the ecosystem and who don't
depend on these features
this is a hell of a tablet
thanks for watching
catch you in the next one peace